Day 3 of programming


Today:
- Dotnet
	- Intro to .NET and C#
	- Visual Studio
	- Some basic syntax stuff
	- Types in C#
		- Classes, structs, records
	- Unit testing and Test Driven Development
		- TDD:
		- Makes sure you cant put code into production you can't test.
	- Learning C# by building a dumb thing


- He does not want to make this a C# death march lol.,
- Break us into breakout rooms of ~3 people, then we can talk with other ppl and ask each other.
- Slow down a bit for the next few days and understand the stuff going on with .NET



Visual Studio
- ASP.NET Core Web API for building APIs/microservices
- Projects and Solutions
- Project
	- Thing that will get compiled to an assembly. Like how Java is compiled to JAR
	- Each project creates a new assembly.
- Solution:
	- Container for 1+ project. Kinda like a workspace.

.NET Support
- Long term support (LTS)
	- 3 years of support - EVEN numbered versions
	- Currently version 6
	- In September, version 8 is coming out
- Regular term support
	- 18 months of support (1.5 years) - ODD Numbered versions
	- In class, we will use .NET 7. Gonna use basically exclusively the features in .NET 6
- File types in the project
	- .csproj -> Basically just a XML explaining what the type of it is
		- Dependencies go in here. Can access by clicking on the project name (like "FirstApp")
		- `implicitusing` setting:
			- If you change to False, then it doesnt automatically know where the System namespace is.
				- Would be able to say System.Console.WriteLine();
	- .vscode -> Settings folder
	- .sln -> build options


Structure
- Namespace is the 
- `Internal` means that this code is only availaible to the code within the same assembly


Start without debugger: `ctrl+f5`
Start with debugger: `f5`



"Don't use top-level statements"
- C# got javascript envy where they made it so you don't need all the declarations
	- you can just write `Console.WriteLine("Hello From Main");` and it works just fine
- If you have a file called Program.cs, it automatically creates a file called program and creates a static void main.

The `.dll` file is the cross-platform thing. `.exe.` is win exclusive
- Can also run dll files using `dotnet firstapp.dll` kinda cool

Console.ReadLine() returns a `string?` type which means it is possibly null

Console app could be running on a server and basically just listening for other things. Other services can make an HTTPS request into this and get something back.



Properties/launchSettings.json
- Where the program comes up with the URLs and the ports




C# / .NET 
- c++ was so powerful 
	- Lots of power to the developers.
	- Access to memory
	- "VB makes the easy stuff too easy and the hard stuff impossible"
		- No pointers, can't access memory.
		- Not object oriented, it's object based
		- Created "Component Object Model (COM)" to allow complex c++ things to run in VB
- WCF uses XML messages to go back and forth. Doesn't expose APUI.




Systems Programmer 
- Roles
	- Creating operating systems
	- database engines
	- compilers
	- tool
	- asm -> c -> c++, rust
- Reliability
	- This won't blow up for ANYONE (generic) that uses this.
		- So lots of speculative tests.
	- Performance
		- Big O, Performance profiling, arguing about if an array is better than a list
-

Library or Framework Programming
- Stuff like Angular
- Progressive created framework called TCA for policies.
	- people hate TCA now. It was mainly useful for old HTML stuff before iPhones and stuff.
- At some point, a framework will die. Eventually change will come along.
*Library*
- Code that your code uses
	- Big limitation:
	- Big responsibility: Creator might get tired, someone else would have to get tired.
*Framework*
- Code that uses your code
	- A little heavier than libraries
	- Want to generally avoid as much as possible

Reliability - be more general - like "Be liberal with what you accept and conservative with what you produce".


*Application Developers - Applying libraries, frameworks, systems to do business stuff *
- DOES IT MEET THE BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS?
	- Testing is more about does it meet the business requirements?
	- Don't need to check for stuff like Nulls since the person who worked on it confirmed that there wont be nulls in a CC #.


FOUR RULES OF SIMPLE DESIGN:
- Passes the tests
	- it works right
	- Write the simplest thing to make the test pass first
- Reveals intention
	- Can you understand what the code is created for?
- No duplication
	- "Don't repeat yourself" DRY -> Moist. 
	- Duplication bad bc then you have to maintain it in multiple spots (and you won't)
		- If in 30 spots and is only changed in one, then that is bad. Will lead to lots and lots of future issues.
		- If you want to have one thing repeated everywhere like "last name, first name", implement it in one spot where everyone can take it.
- Fewest elements
	- Variables, loops, if statements, etc.
	- This is where bugs hide.
		- If you can calculate sum of array without using variables, then it is better than using variables.
		- If you hide too many elements, then you lose ability to reveal intention.

If performance is needed, then write a performance related test
- Most of the time it will be based on responsiveness performance


"Premature optimization is the root of all evil" - Donald Knuth

There is cool API catalog at here. Also own set of reusable libraries in Nuget and Angular.

Inside of prog firewall, cannot download from Nuget/any other code sharing sites.
- They use an internal service called Artifactory

Progressive stack exchange -> Internal stack overflow


At Prog, they have two tools called IGuard and WebGuard. This is used to do authentication

Surgey Barbato - Any questions about Webguard to him.

\



*Testing*

- Xunit
	- Almost all dotnet documentation uses xunit

*Test Driven Development*
- A process or "form" for writing intentional code
	- Challenging or impossible to write tests for existing code
	- Much much much easier to write tests as you write the code
- Red -> Green -> Refactor cycle
- *Red*: Start with a meaningfully failing test
	- What would it look like if your code did something it currently does not do?
	- If you are writing automated tests, the "meaningfully" part means that the test fails on the assertion
	- Make the test *intentionally* fail
- *Green*
	- Write the *simplest* code possible to *make the test pass*. Don't take too long. If it takes you longer than a few minutes, delete the test and make a smaller step by writing another test.
	- Don't worry about writing code that is "good" yet. That's the next step.
	- Make sure to get code that compiles and gets the test to pass first.
	- Get to green *fast*
		- If it does not work fast, then delete the test and start over. Make it more simple
		- For Jeff, ~2 minutes. Try to make the test down into something smaller and smaller.
- *Refactor*
	-  Simplify over and over again into its best state. Clean up your code
		- Make it more revealing, e.g., come up with better names
		- "Naming things and removing duplication"
	- "Fixing things that aren't broke"
		- Do it as you go. It's about the internal quality of the code
	- "Code Smells" - you pick up on it more over time
		- Inappropriate intimacy, code knows a little bit too much about another thing
		- Lots of nested loops
	- Bugs scale linearly with the number of lines of code
		- Keep it as simple as possible to limit the number of bugs
		- Bugs hide in branches (if, switch, loops)
	- DO NOT ADD NEW FUNCTIONALITY DURING A REFACTOR


[TDD Kata 1 - String Calculator — Roy Osherove](https://osherove.com/tdd-kata-1)
Goal is to practice so many times that you just do it automatically


`dotnet new gitignore`

